Before You Begin
================

Before you get started, read the :doc:`Overview <overview>` and familiarize
yourself with the :doc:`glossary<glossary>` and the :doc:`passphrases
<passphrases>` involved in SecureDrop's operations. You may wish to leave these
documents open in other tabs for reference as you work.

SecureDrop is a technical tool. It is designed to protect journalists and
sources, but no tool can guarantee safety. This guide will instruct you in
installing and configuring SecureDrop, but it does not explain how to use it
safely and effectively. Put another way: at the end of this guide, you will have
built a car; you will not know how to drive. The :ref:`Deployment Guide
<deployment>` contains best practices for working with SecureDrop. Make sure to
read it after completing the installation.

Installing SecureDrop is an extended manual process which requires extensive
preparation, equipment, and organizational support. You will likely need to set
aside a day to complete the install process. Installing SecureDrop requires an
admin with at least basic familiarity with Linux, the GNU core utilities, and
Bash shell. If you are not proficient in these areas, it is strongly recommended
that you contact the `Freedom of the Press Foundation
<https://securedrop.org/help>`__ for installation assistance.

Before you begin, you will need to assemble the required :doc:`hardware <hardware>`.

To assist in the installation process, we offer a `SecureDrop Installation
Worksheet`_.  It is **critical** that you destroy this worksheet when your
installation is complete and all of your passphrases have been safely stored in
a password manager.

When running commands or editing configuration files that include filenames,
version numbers, usernames, hostnames, or IP addresses, make sure to use the
appropriate values for your instance.

Once you're familiar with SecureDrop, have made your plan, ensured your
organization is ready to follow through, and assembled the necessary hardware,
you're ready to begin.

----

.. warning:: Remember to destroy the `SecureDrop Installation Worksheet`_ after the
             installation is complete.

.. _`SecureDrop Installation Worksheet`: https://docs.google.com/a/freedom.press/document/d/18RMAzhx1XCgpmw366I8tItBXQTzkFy_i_D0c605DTS8/edit?usp=sharing
